+++
title = "Productivity and re-selection in a party-based environment: evidence from the Portuguese case"
date = "2018-01-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Enrico Borghetto, Marco Lisi"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["0"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Parliamentary affairs*, forthcoming"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Portugal is a crucial case when studying candidate re-selection in a party-dominated setting. While we expect MPs’ productivity to be strongly associated with re-selection, it should not affect the position of reselected representatives on the party list. These expectations are tested using data on MPs' parliamentary activities across 8 years (from 2007 to 2015), while controlling for alternative hypotheses. Although the two main hypotheses are confirmed, we found that both electoral vulnerability and district magnitude condition the effect of MPs’ productivity on re-selection. Overall, the results are in line with the literature on re-selection and suggest that other factors, such as party loyalty, may be germane to the  understanding of the re-selection process in Portugal."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1093/pa/gsx051"
url_preprint = "/publications/pp_2018_beforeproof.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
