+++
title = "Changing the transmission belt: the programme-to-policy link in Italy between the First and Second Republic"
date = "2018-07-25"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Marcello Carammia", "Enrico Borghetto", "Shaun Bevan"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["0"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Italian Political Science Review / Rivista Italiana di Scienza Politica*, forthcoming"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This article analyses the transmission of policy priorities from electoral campaigns to legislative outputs under different institutional configurations. Taking an agenda-setting approach, the article tests whether a mandate effect exists, if incumbents also uptake the priorities of their competitors, and whether and how the introduction of alternation in government impacts on these dynamics. The analysis relies on data sets of the Italian Agendas Project recording the issue content of party manifestos and laws and covering the period 1983–2012. The results of time series cross-sectional models lend support to the presence of a mandate effect in Italy, a mechanism which was strengthened after the introduction of alternation in government. Opposition priorities may have an impact on the legislative agenda, but mostly when considering the legislation initiated in Parliament. Our findings have important implications for the understanding of the impact of government alternation, an institutional feature underlying – with varying intensity – most democracies, on the functioning of democratic representation."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["cap"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/italian-political-science-review-rivista-italiana-di-scienza-politica/article/changing-the-transmission-belt-the-programmetopolicy-link-in-italy-between-the-first-and-second-republic/FBE0D4B6512AF093B87B05C3925E24CF/share/c9a6640f1abde3226cd7ff42de85c5d6bf748323"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++