+++
publication_types = ["1"]
date = "2018-01-01"
title = "Changing the Transmission Belt. The Programme-to-Policy Link in Italy between the First and Second Republic"
abstract = "This article analyses the transmission of policy priorities from election campaigns to legislative outputs, and the effect of the agendas of the majority and opposition therein, under different institutional configurations. Because of its change from a system with no alternation in government to a system with perfect alternation, and of the strengthening of the role of cabinets in the law making process, Italy provides an ideal quasi-experimental context. To test the general relationship between party electoral agendas and legislative outputs, we rely on CAP-coded datasets of party manifestos and laws covering the period 1983-2012. Empirical analyses make use of a time series cross-sectional design with panel corrected standard errors. Our findings are overall consistent with mandate theory, or the promissory model of representation, which would expect the shift to the Second Republic to result in a stronger relation between the electoral priorities of governing parties and their legislative outputs. The introduction of alternation to government results indeed in an increased effect of the electoral priorities of governing parties on the legislative priorities they pursue once in office. However, consistent with agenda-setting theory, our findings also reveal a more complex picture. While the effect of the electoral agenda of parties in government grows in the Second Republic, so does also the effect of opposition agendas. The introduction of alternation in government, and the strengthening of the government’s legislative capacity, put more pressure for parties in government to stick to their electoral priorities; but they also increase the incentives to uptake the priorities of opposition parties, thus strengthening their agenda-setting power. Our findings have important implications for the understanding of the effect of institutional change on the functioning of representation in the democratic process."
authors = ["Marcello Carammia", "Enrico Borghetto", "Shaun Bevan"]
url_pdf = "/working_paper/Main_MBB.pdf"
+++
